.TH TOKEN 1 token-VERSION
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\" Section:NAME
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.SH NAME
token \- A command line token reward system manager.
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\" Section:SYNOPSIS
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.B token
.RB [ OPTION... ]
.B COMMAND
.RB [ ARGUMENT... ]
.P
.B token
.BR \-h | \-\-help
.P
.B token \-\-version
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\" Section:DESCRIPTION
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B token
is a command line token reward system manager to combat procrastination.
If you are not familiar with token reward system concepts please refer to the
section
.B TOKEN REWARD SYSTEM
below.
.P
.B token
allows users to add, delete, list token rewards (also simply referred as
.I tokens
in this manual page), make graphical representations of them and plot history
of past tokens to track progress.
.B token
requires each token to have a short description, a reward value in range
[1-10] and a date when this token reward was given.
.P
.B token
stores token rewards in plain text files under
.I ~/.token
directory (by default). Token rewards are stored in pages of 200 tokens each
(by default). Once one token page is filled a new one is started.
.B token
behavior can be controlled by modifying its configuration file
.IR ~/.tokenrc .
Details of the configuration file format can be found in the
.B CONFIGURATION FILE
section of this manual page.
.P
If you are looking for a quick way to get started with
.B token
please refer to the section
.B EXAMPLES
below.
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\" Section:COMMANDS
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.SH COMMANDS
This section lists token management commands that
.B token
supports. Each command may accept multiple arguments. Only arguments that are
specific to a given command will be described in this section. Arguments that
are common among multiple commands will be described in the
.B OPTIONS
section below.
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B add
.RB [ \-p
.IR PAGE ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR DATE ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR META ]
.BI \-r " REWARD"
.I DESCRIPTION...
.RS
Add a new token with description
.IR DESCRIPTION... .
Arguments:
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reward " " \fIREWARD\fR
Token reward value. Must be in range [1-10].
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-date " " \fIDATE\fR
Date and time of the token reward. Expected formats are
.IR YYYY-MM-DD " or " YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss " or " YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:sszzz .
If this argument is omitted then the current datetime is used as a reward time.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-meta " " \fIMETA\fR
Optional metainformation associated with the token. No restriction is placed on
its form.
.RE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B del
.RB [ \-p
.IR PAGE ]
.RB [ \-\- ]
.I ID
.RS
Remove token. The
.I ID
argument specifies the token to remove. The negative
.I ID
is interpreted as counting from the back. Additionally, a special syntax for
.I ID
field is supported -
.I PAGE.ID
where
.I PAGE
specifies the page number of the token
.IR ID .
.RE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B export
.RB [ \-p
.IR PAGE ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR FORMAT ]
.RS
Export tokens to an external format. Arguments:
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Export format name. Supported formats:
.IR json .
.RE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B graph
.RB [ \-p
.IR PAGE ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR COLOR ]
.RI [ FILTER ]
.RB [ \-\-before
.IR DATE ]
.RB [ \-\-after
.IR DATE ]
.RB [ \-\-mode
.IR MODE ]
.RB [ \-\-value ]
.RS
Make a histogram of tokens vs date. If
.I FILTER
is specified then only tokens with descriptions matching
.I FILTER
will be plotted. Arguments:
.TP
.BI \-\-after " DATE"
Only plot tokens earned after
.IR DATE .
.TP
.BI \-\-before " DATE"
Only plot tokens earned before
.IR DATE .
.TP
.BI \-\-mode " MODE"
Histogram binning mode. Supported modes:
.IR day ", " week ", " month ", " year .
If mode is omitted then token histogram will have one bin per day.
.TP
.B \-\-value
Controls histogram values. If
.B \-\-value
is omitted then the histogram of number of tokens per bin will be made.
Otherwise a histogram of total token rewards per bin will be made.
.RE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B info
.RB [ \-p
.IR PAGE ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR COLOR ]
.RB [ \-\- ]
.I ID
.RS
Show detailed information about a token specified by
.IR ID .
Please refer to the
.B del
subcommand manual for the description of the
.I ID
argument.
.RE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B list
.RB [ \-p
.IR PAGE ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR COLOR ]
.RI [ FILTER ]
.RB [ \-\-before
.IR DATE ]
.RB [ \-\-after
.IR DATE ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR LIMIT ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR OFFSET ]
.RS
Show a list of earned tokens. If
.I FILTER
is specified then only tokens with descriptions matching
.I FILTER
will be listed. Arguments:
.TP
.BI \-\-after " DATE"
Only list tokens earned after
.IR DATE .
.TP
.BI \-\-before " DATE"
Only list tokens earned before
.IR DATE .
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-limit " " \fILIMIT\fR
Limit number of listed tokens to
.IR LIMIT .
If
.I LIMIT
is 0 then all tokens will be listed. If
.I LIMIT
is -1 then the list height will be set to the screen height.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-offset " " \fIOFFSET\fR
Number of the first token to be listed. If
.I OFFSET
is 0, then the last
.I LIMIT
tokens will be listed.
.RE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B itable
.RB [ \-p
.IR PAGE ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR COLOR ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR SUBPAGE ]
.RS
Print a table (grid) of tokens for a page
.IR PAGE .
Each token will be represented as an icon (ASCII "art" object) depending on its
reward value. Arguments:
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-subpage " " \fISUBPAGE\fR
The number of tokens in a single page
.I PAGE
may be too large to be printed on single terminal screen. In this case, tokens
on
.I PAGE
will be grouped into subpages of fixed size such that each subpage will fit
the terminal screen. The
.I SUBPAGE
argument controls which subpage will be printed. If
.I SUBPAGE
is 0, then the last subpage that has tokens will be printed (default).
.RE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B table
.RB [ \-p
.IR PAGE ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR COLOR ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR SUBPAGE ]
.RS
Print a table (grid) of tokens for a page
.IR PAGE .
Each token will be represented as a cell in the grid, showing reward value,
date earned and its description. Please refer to the
.B itable
command for the description of command arguments.
.RE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\" Section:OPTIONS
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-page " " \fIPAGE\fR
Token page number. The negative page numbers are interpreted as counting from
the back. The interpretation of the special page number 0 depends on the
command. For
.BR graph " and " list
commands the 0 page number means use all pages. For the remaining commands the
0s page refers to the last page.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-color " " \fICOLOR\fR
Output colorization mode. Supported modes:
.IR on ", " off ", " auto .
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\" Section:CONFIGURATION FILE
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The
.B token
configuration is stored in the
.I ~/.tokenrc
configuration file. The configuration file has a simple ini like syntax where
every line is name/value pair:
.nf
.RS
.P
name = "value"
.RE
.fi
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
The configuration parameters are described below:
.TP
.BR tokenDir " = " \fITOKEN_DIRECTORY\fR
Directory where token pages will be stored.
.TP
.BR pageSize " = " \fIPAGE_SIZE\fR
Number of tokens in one token page.
.TP
.BR color.reward.N " = " \fICOLOR\fR
Color specification for the tokens with reward N, where N is in range [1-10].
See color specification format below.
.TP
.BR color.altN " = " \fICOLOR\fR
Background color (N in range [1,2]) specification. Even lines of the list
report will have background specified by
.B color.alt0
and odd lines will have background specified by
.BR color.alt1 .
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
Each color specification has the following format:
.RS
.IR COLOR " = \(dq[" STYLE "] [" FG_COLOR "] [\fBon\fR " BG_COLOR ]\(dq
.RE
where
.RS
.BR \fISTYLE\fR " = (" bright | dim | italic | underscore | blink | \c
.BR reverse | hidden | strikethrough ") [" \fISTYLE\fR ]
.RE
and
.IR FG_COLOR ", " BG_COLOR
can be either a color name (e.g.
.IR red ", " green ", etc)"
or a hex color specification
.IR #RRGGBB .
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\" Section:TOKEN REWARD SYSTEM
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.SH TOKEN REWARD SYSTEM
Token reward system is a system to reinforce desirable behavior by rewarding it
with token rewards. In essence, after you perform a difficult/unpleasant task
add a token with reward value proportional to the subjective unpleasantness of
the task. Rewarding the task completion with tokens can be perceived as
pleasant by your brain and will start reinforcement learning. It will also help
to stay focused on the task and keep track of its progress. You can find more
information about the Token Reward System online.
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\" Section:EXAMPLES
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.SH EXAMPLES
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.B Add a new token
.nf
.RS
$ token add install token application --reward 5
.RE
.fi
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B List all tokens
.nf
.RS
$ token list
.RE
.fi
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B List all tokens having word install in the description after 1999-01-01
.nf
.RS
$ token list '.*install.*' --after 1999-01-01
.RE
.fi
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B Make a grid with cells representing earned tokens
.nf
.RS
$ token itable
.RE
.fi
\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.P
.B Plot histogram of earned tokens grouped by week
.nf
.RS
$ token graph --mode week
.RE
.fi
